The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.
Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.
Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.
Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.
A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.
A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""
After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).
In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.
Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.
The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.
Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
A form of AIDS exists in cats.
When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.
Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.
Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.
The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.
Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.
Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.
The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.
A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
Cats walk on their toes.
Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.
Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.
Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.
The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.
You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.
In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.
When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.
Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.
A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.
It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.
Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.
Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.
A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.
The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!
A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.
When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as 'hers' with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head, it is a sign of acceptance and affection.
Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.
A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.
Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.
On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as 'hers' with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head, it is a sign of acceptance and affection.
A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.
A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.
Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.
In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.
When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.
Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.
The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.
If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.
There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.
 A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.
The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.
During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.
When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.
A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.
Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""
Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.
A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).
Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.
Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.
Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.
Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.
Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.
Cats have 3 eyelids.
The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).
The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!
A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.
There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.
A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.
The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.
Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.
A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.
While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.
One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.
Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.
Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.
A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).
A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.
Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.
The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.
Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.
It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.
At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.
Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).
The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!
Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
Milk can give some cats diarrhea.
